In the 11th century BCE, the nation of Syria would often attack Israel, capturing many and
making many of their slaves, even children.
Notice how the Bible describes one of these raids at Second Kings chapter 5.
Second Kings chapter 5, and in verse 1, we are told that Naaman was the army chief of
the Syrians.
He was a mighty warrior, but he was also very sick with leprosy.
But notice verse 2, on wonder of their raids, the Syrians had taken captive from the land
of Israel a little girl who became a servant to Naaman's wife.
Can you picture this little girl being ripped away from her parents?
It was frightening for her.
She was taken to a strange land with people that were intimidating, and they worshipped
many false gods.
In that very difficult circumstance, how was this little girl required to exercise
strong faith?
Please note the answer to this question in the following video.
I remember the day the soldiers took me away.
I had never felt more alone.
My home, my friends, everything I knew was gone.
But I still had Jehovah.
The master of the house was very sick.
He was in pain.
Elijah could help him.
I had heard about Elijah's miracles.
He had even raised the dead.
I knew Elijah could cure him, and Jehovah gave me the courage to speak up.
Despite being away from her parents, this little girl exercised strong faith.
Where did she get that faith?
Well, no doubt her parents had inculcated love and trust for Jehovah in her.
But she also had things that were happening in her lifetime that would build her faith.
For example, she would have known about the miracles of the prophet Elijah.
But how would Jehovah's spirit perform many miracles, including raising a little boy
from the dead?
This little girl could have reasoned why if Jehovah can raise a little boy from death,
he can certainly cure my master from his disease.
Well, what did she do with this faith and trust?
She spoke up courageously.
Notice her words to her mistress as recorded at 2 Kings chapter 5 and verse 3.
She said to her mistress,
if only my Lord would visit the prophet in Samaria, then he would cure him of his laprosy.
Such bonus, and because she spoke up, Nehaman went to Israel,
God in touch with Elijah the prophet,
humbled himself, listened to the instructions, and was completely cured of the laprosy.
But something else very important occurred.
Because of Nehaman coming to know about Jehovah, what did he declare?
At 2 Kings 5, 15, he said,
Now I know there is no God anywhere in the earth, but in Israel.
And Nehaman also vowed that he would never serve any other gods, but Jehovah.
How happy Nehaman and his entire household was when he went home, not only was he cured
of his laprosy, but now he was a happy, joyful servant of Jehovah.
Well, it's not just in Bible times that good experiences like this have occurred.
As you watch the following dramatization, notice how one of our sisters shows strong faith
even under the most difficult of circumstances.
I was taken from my home, my husband, and my spiritual family.
I was imprisoned for my faith.
It was another world.
It wasn't easy staying strong.
Every time I asked for a Bible, the answer was no.
God's word was already in my heart, so I did what I loved the most.
I talked about God's kingdom.
Many of those I preached to seemed cold at first, but genuine love and the warmth of God's
word just seemed to melt their hearts.
Sometimes speaking up took more courage than I thought I had, but not more courage than
Jehovah could give me.
It was hard to look beyond the locks and uniforms, but God's will is that all sorts of people
learn about him.
So I spoke about my God, Jehovah.
I knew that even behind prison bars, Jehovah would give me the strength to help others.
At this point, we'd like to address our young ones in the audience.
You too can have strong faith like the little Israelite girl and tell others about Jehovah.
Remember the words of Romans chapter 10 verses 13 and 14?
It is so important that people know about Jehovah, but how can they know about him and gain
salvation if there's no one to preach?
You too can become a bold and faithful preacher of the good news.
Now, by taking in Bible truths and building up strong faith in your heart, and then you
will be able to do like our sister did in the dramatization.
Remember what she said?
I had God's word in my heart and as a result, even in prison, when I was surrounded by
all those difficulties, I did what I love to do talk about God's kingdom.
Another thing you can do is pray for more courage and faith.
Remember what our sister said?
It seemed that at times to speak up required more courage than I had, but not more courage
than Jehovah could give me.
So dear young ones, don't be afraid to talk about Jehovah and the truth to your schoolmates,
so you're unbelieving relatives to your teachers.
And results will happen, for example.
There's an experience of a schoolteacher here in the United States who had been searching
for the basic questions as to the meaning of life, but she could not find them.
But then her twelve-year-old student at school asked the teacher three questions, the first
question.
Do you know I'm one of Jehovah's Witnesses?
Yes.
Would you like to learn more about Jehovah's Witnesses?
Third question, where do you live?
Our twelve-year-old sister started a study with her teacher, the teacher loved what she
was hearing, made excellent progress, and was baptized.
That sister, the former schoolteacher, has been serving Jehovah now for many decades.
In fact, for the last forty years she has been serving as a member of the United States
Bethel family.
So blessings come when we speak up and show strong faith.
Remember in the case of the little Israelite girl, Naaman would have never gone to Israel
if she had not spoken up.
And as a result, he was cured but also became a servant of Jehovah.
So in harmony with the strong faith of that captive Israelite girl, may Jehovah give
all of us the courage we need to display our strong faith, even under the most stressful
and even frightening circumstances.
For the Jeffrey Jackson will now consider the next talk of this symposium, imitate
women of strong faith, marry the mother of Jesus.